# Deploying-Netflix-application-on-AWS
# What is cloud computing?
In simple terms, cloud computing is a range of services delivered over the internet, or “the cloud.” It means using remote servers to store and access data instead of relying on local hard drives and private datacenters.

Before cloud computing existed, organizations had to purchase and maintain their own servers to meet business needs. This required buying enough server space to reduce the risk of downtime and outages, and to accommodate peak traffic volume. As a result, large amounts of server space went unused for much of the time. Today’s cloud service providers allow companies to reduce the need for onsite servers, maintenance personnel, and other costly IT resources.
# Benefits of Cloud computing?
Cloud computing has gained popularity at a rapid pace because it offers a number of benefits. It’s more cost-effective than on-site server installations and can provide faster service than a traditional installation.

In addition, cloud computing models are easy to scale. The cloud extends alongside an organization's fluctuating needs, making it easy to accommodate real-time changes in computing power needs. The cloud is also very reliable, offering dependable data backup for disaster recovery and business continuity. Businesses that leverage cloud environments do not need to maintain complex hardware, nor do they need to build solutions from scratch. The cloud allows teams to get projects up and running as soon as they receive executive sign off.
# Certified cloud providers
There are a handful of well-known, major public cloud companies—such as Alibaba Cloud, Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), IBM Cloud, Oracle Cloud, and Microsoft Azure—but there are also hundreds of other cloud computing providers all over the world.
# Amazon Web Services(AWS):-
Amazon Web Services, Inc. (AWS) is a subsidiary of Amazon that provides on-demand cloud computing platforms and APIs to individuals, companies, and governments, on a metered pay-as-you-go basis. These cloud computing web services provide distributed computing processing capacity and software tools via AWS server farms. One of these services is Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), which allows users to have at their disposal a virtual cluster of computers, available all the time, through the Internet. AWS's virtual computers emulate most of the attributes of a real computer, including hardware central processing units (CPUs) and graphics processing units (GPUs) for processing; local/RAM memory; hard-disk/SSD storage; a choice of operating systems; networking; and pre-loaded application software such as web servers, databases, and customer relationship management (CRM).

AWS services are delivered to customers via a network of AWS server farms located throughout the world. Fees are based on a combination of usage (known as a "Pay-as-you-go" model), hardware, operating system, software, or networking features chosen by the subscriber required availability, redundancy, security, and service options. Subscribers can pay for a single virtual AWS computer, a dedicated physical computer, or clusters of either.[8] Amazon provides select portions of security for subscribers (e.g. physical security of the data centers) while other aspects of security are the responsibility of the subscriber (e.g. account management, vulnerability scanning, patching). AWS operates from many global geographical regions including 6 in North America.[9]

Amazon markets AWS to subscribers as a way of obtaining large-scale computing capacity more quickly and cheaply than building an actual physical server farm.[10] All services are billed based on usage, but each service measures usage in varying ways. As of 2021 Q4, AWS has 33% market share for cloud infrastructure while the next two competitors Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud have 21%, and 10% respectively, according to Synergy Group.
# Why AWS is important?
There are various upcoming companies who have leveraged AWS cloud solutions for their growth. AWS was the first company which started to provide cloud solutions on a large scale. It has consistently grown and developed itself to be at the top today. It is ranked as the foremost cloud provider by Gartner in terms of completeness of vision and ability to execute. 
